# **cool_stuff**

## **Heap's Algorithm** --> heapsAlgorithm.java
I completed this program using the java programming language. I implemented Heap's algorithm which can be used to get all permutations of a variable amount of objects. Heap's Algorithm was originally proposed by B.R Heap in 1963. In this program I also implemented a method to make sure the current created permuation is unique (permuteUnique()), so there won't be any duplicates in the output.


## **Monty Hall Problem** --> monty_hall.py
I wrote this in python. I recently learned about the Monty Hall problem which you might already be familiar with. The Monty Hall problem is a probability problem which orginated from the "Let's Make a Deal" game show which was hosted by Monty Hall. In the show the contestant is shown three doors, in which 2 of them have nothing of value and 1 would have something of great value (ex. car). The hosts makes the contestant choose one of the three doors. Then he would open one of the other two non-chosen doors that doesn't have the valuable item in it. The contestant is then left with the dilemma of sticking to his original chosen door or switching to the other remaining door. At first glance this dilemma seems to merely be one added for entertainment. However, probability plays a large role in how the contestant should go about dealing with this choice. At the beginning of the show, the contestant originally has a 1/3 (~33.33%) chance of choosing the correct door. The combined winning chance of the other two non-chosen doors are 2/3 (~66.67%). Once the host removes one door, the remaining non-chosen door will have an increased 2/3 (~66.67%) chance of having the valuable item. Considering this, it would be of the contestant's best interest to swap doors **EVERY TIME**. Although swapping doors won't guarantee the winning outcome, it will increase the chances of selecting the correct door by +33.33% over the long term.
